PFAS use prohibitions and reporting | Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
      Skip to main content
    SearchSearchSearchSearch

                Air, Water, Land, Climate
          Toggle submenu

                Air
          

                Air quality
          

                Air pollutants
          

                Air quality initiatives
          

                Air quality trends and data
          

                Water
          

                Water quality
          

                Water pollutants
          

                Water quality initiatives
          

                Water quality trends and data
          

                Land
          

                Land quality
          

                Remediation and redevelopment
          

                Waste planning and recycling
          

                Land contaminants
          

                Land and waste trends and data
          

                Climate
          

                Climate impacts
          

                Climate initiatives
          

                Climate adaptation
          

                Climate trends and data
          

                Trending Topics
          Toggle submenu

                Climate action
          

                PFAS in Minnesota
          

                Data centers
          

                Cumulative impacts
          

                Nitrate in Minnesota
          

                Compliance and enforcement
          

                Local sites and projects
          

                Business With Us
          Toggle submenu

                Permits and regulations
          

                Environmental review
          

                Permitting initiatives
          

                Permittee assistance
          

                Air permits
          

                Mining permits
          

                Solid waste permits
          

                Water permits
          

                Waste and recycling
          

                Feedlots
          

                Septic systems
          

                Storage tanks
          

                For government and partners
          

                GreenStep Cities
          

                Eco Experience at the Minnesota State Fair
          

                Materials and waste management
          

                Local septic system programs
          

                Watershed information
          

                Water quality resources
          

                County feedlot officers
          

                Sustainable government purchasing
          

                Climate adaptation resources
          

                Minnesota GreenCorps
          

                Business support
          

                Remediation guidance
          

                Training and certification
          

                Grants, loans, and contracts
          

                Small business environmental assistance
          

                Sustainable business practices
          

                Get Engaged
          Toggle submenu

                Volunteer water monitoring
          

                Education
          

                Public participation
          

                Public comments
          

                Proposed rules
          

                Events and meetings
          

                About MPCA
          Toggle submenu

                Contact us
          

                Emergency response
          

                About us
          

                Commissioner's office
          

                Science and data
          

                Legislative priorities
          

                Environmental justice
          

                Library services
          

                News and stories
          

                Careers
          

                Diversity, equity, and inclusion
          

        Air, Water, Land, Climate
      

        Water
      

Water quality initiatives

Minnesota's PFAS Blueprint

PFAS use prohibitions and reporting

Minnesota’s PFAS Blueprint prioritizes pollution prevention as the most effective way to protect human health, the environment, and our economy from the effects of “forever chemicals.” Small amounts of PFAS may be harmful. Some build up in people over time, and all are difficult to remove from the environment. PFAS pollution and the risk of human exposure to it begins when the chemicals are created and continues decades or centuries after a product containing PFAS is disposed of. Pollution prevention protects taxpayers from costly PFAS investigation and clean-up expenses.

Minnesota has enacted laws — including but not limited to Amara’s Law — to end avoidable PFAS use in Minnesota by 2032. Certain details of Amara’s Law will be determined through an ongoing rulemaking process that includes public comment.

This webpage provides a consolidated reference and should not be relied on in place of Minnesota statutes and rules. “PFAS” means a class of fluorinated organic chemicals containing at least one fully fluorinated carbon atom in all prohibitions.
15266: GovDelivery: PFAS rulemaking MNPCA_521
Stay connected

Sign up for updates about PFAS rulemaking and opportunities for public input.
Subscribe
PFAS prohibitions and reporting timeline 

July 1, 2020 – Firefighting foam for testing or training

Intentionally added PFAS in firefighting foam used for testing or training purposes are prohibited with some exceptions. (Minn. Stat. § 325F.072)

Jan. 1, 2024 – Firefighting foam and food packaging

Firefighting foam

Intentionally added PFAS in firefighting foam are prohibited for testing, training, and incident response, with limited exceptions that expire in 2026 and 2028. The law makes no exceptions for individuals or state or municipal fire departments. (Minn. Stat. § 325F.072)

For additional guidance, see the MPCA’s fact sheet on firefighting foam use and disposal. 

Food packaging

Intentionally added PFAS in food packaging are prohibited. (Minn. Stat. § 325F.075)

Food packaging includes any container used to market, protect, handle, deliver, serve, contain, or store food or beverages.

The law applies to any layer of packaging, including a unit package, an intermediate package, and a shipping container.

The law applies to everything from the inks used on food and beverage containers to the interior or exterior blocking, bracing, cushioning, weatherproofing, tape, shrink wrap, or strapping used to protect the containers during shipping. 
16416: PFAS in food packaging webinar
PFAS in food packaging webinar

The MPCA held a webinar in November 2023 to provide an overview of Minnesota’s PFAS in food packaging law, a review of applicable definitions, what businesses should do by Jan. 1, 2024, enforcement, and to answer questions.

    Watch the webinar
  
Jan. 1, 2025 – 11 categories of products

Intentionally added PFAS in 11 categories of new products sold or distributed for sale are prohibited. These are the first prohibitions under Amara’s Law to take effect. 

"Intentionally added" means PFAS deliberately added during the manufacture of a product to perform a specific function. For instance, if PFAS are applied to a rain jacket to give it water-resistant properties, that PFAS is intentionally added. If very small amounts of PFAS are found in the rain jacket due the manufacturing process and the rain jacket is water-resistant due to the use of other substances, that PFAS may not be intentionally added.

Temporary exemptions are allowed for internal components, electronic components, and certain vehicles, such as motorcycles designed for children. The 2032 prohibitions apply to these temporarily exempted components and products. (Minn. Stat. § 116.943, Subd. 5a)

carpets or rugs

cleaning products  

cookware

cosmetics

dental floss

fabric treatments

juvenile products

menstruation products

textile furnishings

ski wax

upholstered furniture

Jan. 1, 2026 – Pesticides and firefighting foam at airports and refineries

Pesticides

The Minnesota Department of Agriculture (MDA) will not register or renew the registration of pesticides or cleaning products that contain intentionally added PFAS unless the MDA determines it to be a currently unavoidable use. 

The MPCA will determine currently unavoidable uses based on whether that product is essential for health, safety, or the functioning of society and on whether alternatives are not reasonably available. Rulemaking will create a process by which currently unavoidable use is determined for the MPCA. The Minnesota Department of Agriculture will make “currently unavoidable use” determinations for pesticides, fertilizers, soil and plant amendments, and agricultural liming products.

See the Minnesota Department of Agriculture page for more information. 

Firefighting foam

The use of firefighting foam containing PFAS is prohibited at airports, except for fixed firefighting systems in airport hangars. The state fire marshal has determined that the Federal Aviation Administration has approved the use of fluorine-free firefighting foams and those foams are available in sufficient quantities. (Minn. Stat. § 325F.072)

The use of firefighting foam containing PFAS is prohibited at oil refineries and terminals unless granted a waiver by the state fire marshal. (Minnesota Session Law — 2023, Chapter 60, Article 3, Section 31)

Sept. 15, 2026 – PFAS in products reporting requirement

Due date for initial reports on intentionally added PFAS in products sold in Minnesota, except for products manufactured before July 1, 2023. Initial reports from manufacturers who request and receive an extension are due by Dec. 14, 2026. Subsequent reports are due February 1 of each year. (Minn. Stat. § 116.943, Subd. 2)

Pesticide and soil amendment products are reported to the MDA.

All other products are reported to the MPCA.

For more information, see the reporting PFAS in products webpage.

Jan. 1, 2028 – Firefighting systems in airport hangars

PFAS in fixed firefighting systems in airport hangars is prohibited unless granted a waiver. (Minn. Stat. § 325F.072, Subd. 3e)

Jan. 1, 2032 – Currently avoidable use prohibited

All products containing intentionally added PFAS, including pesticides and soil amendments, are prohibited unless the use of the PFAS in the product is determined to be a currently unavoidable use. (Minn. Stat. § 116.943, Subd. 5c)

Some medical products, including prosthetic devices and any medical devices, drugs, or products regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for use in medical applications, are exempted from the 2032 prohibitions. However, those products must be reported if they contain intentionally added PFAS starting in 2026. (Minn. Stat. § 116.943, Subd. 8)

Frequently asked questions

More Q&A will be added here as the MPCA resolves the issues they raise.

How does anybody know whether products for sale in Minnesota contain PFAS?
Manufacturers are responsible for knowing if their products contain PFAS. Concerned consumers are encouraged to ask manufacturers directly if a certain product contains PFAS. Reports on intentionally added PFAS in new products sold in Minnesota, which are due Sept. 15, 2026, will provide detailed information to the public. If the MPCA suspects a product contains PFAS and thus violates state law, the agency may require the manufacturer of the product to have it tested for PFAS.

How will these prohibitions be enforced?
MPCA has enforcement authorities under Minn. Stat. §§ 115.071 and 116.072 and may coordinate with the departments of agriculture, commerce, and health.  

How should I dispose of products containing PFAS?
At the end of their useful life, products containing PFAS now in use will need to be disposed of as normal solid waste or as hazardous waste, depending on whether they come from a household or from a business. See our disposing of products containing PFAS page for more information.

Section menu

Minnesota's PFAS Blueprint

PFAS in biosolids strategy

PFAS use prohibitions
2025 PFAS prohibitions

Disposing of products containing PFAS

Reporting PFAS in products

PFAS communications toolkit

Monitoring PFAS

Developing water-quality criteria for PFAS

PFAS in fish

PFAS studies and reports

Contact
MPCA PFAS infopfasinfo.pca@state.mn.us
Safeguard tax dollars from fraud. Report suspicious activity.
FacebookInstagramLinkedInYouTubeTwitter
Online Services

Library Services

Careers

For News Media

Report an Incident

Groundwater Contamination Atlas

What's in My Neighborhood

Clean Water Council

Our Minnesota Climate
Contact Us
    Main contact: 800-657-3864 
Environmental emergencies (24 hours):
800-422-0798Sign up for email newslettersSubmit a question
© 2026 Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
Nondiscrimination and civil rights | Privacy rights | User policies and disclaimers

Minnesota Pollution Control Agency is an equal opportunity employer.
