Adopted - PFAS in products: Reporting and fees | Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
      Skip to main content
    SearchSearchSearchSearch

                Air, Water, Land, Climate
          Toggle submenu

                Air
          

                Air quality
          

                Air pollutants
          

                Air quality initiatives
          

                Air quality trends and data
          

                Water
          

                Water quality
          

                Water pollutants
          

                Water quality initiatives
          

                Water quality trends and data
          

                Land
          

                Land quality
          

                Remediation and redevelopment
          

                Waste planning and recycling
          

                Land contaminants
          

                Land and waste trends and data
          

                Climate
          

                Climate impacts
          

                Climate initiatives
          

                Climate adaptation
          

                Climate trends and data
          

                Trending Topics
          Toggle submenu

                Climate action
          

                PFAS in Minnesota
          

                Data centers
          

                Cumulative impacts
          

                Nitrate in Minnesota
          

                Compliance and enforcement
          

                Local sites and projects
          

                Business With Us
          Toggle submenu

                Permits and regulations
          

                Environmental review
          

                Permitting initiatives
          

                Permittee assistance
          

                Air permits
          

                Mining permits
          

                Solid waste permits
          

                Water permits
          

                Waste and recycling
          

                Feedlots
          

                Septic systems
          

                Storage tanks
          

                For government and partners
          

                GreenStep Cities
          

                Eco Experience at the Minnesota State Fair
          

                Materials and waste management
          

                Local septic system programs
          

                Watershed information
          

                Water quality resources
          

                County feedlot officers
          

                Sustainable government purchasing
          

                Climate adaptation resources
          

                Minnesota GreenCorps
          

                Business support
          

                Remediation guidance
          

                Training and certification
          

                Grants, loans, and contracts
          

                Small business environmental assistance
          

                Sustainable business practices
          

                Get Engaged
          Toggle submenu

                Volunteer water monitoring
          

                Education
          

                Public participation
          

                Public comments
          

                Proposed rules
          

                Events and meetings
          

                About MPCA
          Toggle submenu

                Contact us
          

                Emergency response
          

                About us
          

                Commissioner's office
          

                Science and data
          

                Legislative priorities
          

                Environmental justice
          

                Library services
          

                News and stories
          

                Careers
          

                Diversity, equity, and inclusion
          

        Get Engaged
      

Proposed rules

PFAS in products

PFAS in products: Reporting and fees

Revisor ID: R-04828

The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) adopted new rules governing reporting and fees by manufacturers upon submission of required information about products containing per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) on Dec. 8, 2025.

Minn. R. Ch. 7026: Products containing perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances; reporting

A manufacturer or group of manufacturers of a product that is sold, offered for sale, or distributed in the state and that contains intentionally added PFAS must submit an initial report to the MPCA by Sept. 15, 2026, and pay the associated fee. Information required in the report includes:

a brief description of the product or a description of the category or type of product

PFAS chemicals used in the product or its components

the concentration of PFAS chemicals in a product or components of a product made up of homogeneous material

the function that each PFAS chemical provides to the product or its components

manufacturer information

contact information for the authorized representative of the manufacturer who has the authority to execute or direct others to execute reporting to the state

an alternative to the authorized representative

Review the complete list of required information under Minn. R. ch. 7026.0030. 

Information on how to report PFAS in products based on this rule is found on the Reporting PFAS in products page. 

Procedural rulemaking documents

December 2025

Order adopting rules (c-pfas-rule1-07n)

Final rule (c-pfas-rule1-07o)

State Register notice of adoption (Dec. 8, 2025)

Letter to Chief Administrative Law Judge (c-pfas-rule1-07p)

August 2025

Administrative Law Judge report (c-pfas-rule1-07l)

June 2025

Part 1 pre-hearing and hearing response to comments (c-pfas-rule1-07g)

Part 2 pre-hearing and hearing response to comments (c-pfas-rule1-07h)

Post-hearing comments received (c-pfas-rule1-07i)

Responses to post-hearing comments (c-pfas-rule1-07j)

Rebuttal comments received (c-pfas-rule1-07k)

May 2025

Rule hearing exhibits (c-pfas-rule1-07a)

Rule hearing presentation (c-pfas-rule1-07c)

Rule hearing transcript (c-pfas-rule1-07d)

Comments received in Notice of Intent to Adopt comment period (c-pfas-rule1-07b)

April 2025

Proposed Permanent Rules Relating to PFAS in Products; Reporting and Fees (c-pfas-rule1-06)

Statement of Need and Reasonableness for PFAS in products reporting and fees rulemaking (c-pfas-rule1-07)

Notice of intent to adopt rules with a hearing (c-pfas-rule1-05)

SONAR errata (c-pfas-rule1-07m)

November 2024

Notice of 2nd Request for Comments (c-pfas-rule1-03)Reporting and fees

Comments received in response to Request for Comments (c-pfas-rule1-04)Reporting and fees

September 2023

Notice of Request for Comments (c-pfas-rule1-01)Reporting

Comments received in response to Request for Comments (c-pfas-rule1-02)Reporting

Notice of Request for Comments (c-pfas-rule2-01)Fees

Comments received in response to Request for Comments (c-pfas-rule2-02)Fees

Background

The PFAS in products reporting and fees are part of a package of PFAS in products requirements in Minnesota Session Law – 2023, Chapter 60. The law directs that a manufacturer of a product sold, offered for sale, or distributed in Minnesota that contains intentionally added PFAS must submit certain required information to the MPCA. It also directs that if the MPCA opts to establish fees to cover the costs of implementing a reporting program, it must do so in rule.    

Schedule
DatesTask(s)Sept. 25, 2023Notices of Request for Comments published in State RegisterNov. 18, 2024Notice of 2nd Request for Comments published in State Register2024Prepare draft rules and Statement of Need and ReasonablenessApr. 21, 2025Notice of Intent to Adopt Proposed Rules published in State RegisterDec. 8, 2025Final adoption of rulesSept. 15, 2026July 1, 2026Initial PFAS in products reports are due15266: GovDelivery: PFAS rulemaking MNPCA_521
Stay connected

Sign up for updates about PFAS rulemaking and opportunities for public input.
Subscribe
Section menu

PFAS in products

PFAS in products: Currently unavoidable use

PFAS in products: Reporting and fees

Contacts
Andria KurbondskiTechnical issues651-757-2525andria.kurbondski@state.mn.usAddison OttoRule process and schedule651-757-2754addison.otto@state.mn.us
Safeguard tax dollars from fraud. Report suspicious activity.
FacebookInstagramLinkedInYouTubeTwitter
Online Services

Library Services

Careers

For News Media

Report an Incident

Groundwater Contamination Atlas

What's in My Neighborhood

Clean Water Council

Our Minnesota Climate
Contact Us
    Main contact: 800-657-3864 Environmental emergencies (24 hours):800-422-0798Sign up for email newslettersSubmit a question
© 2026 Minnesota Pollution Control AgencyNondiscrimination and civil rights | Privacy rights | User policies and disclaimers
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency is an equal opportunity employer.
