INVITATION TO SUBCONTRACT BIDDERS

Project: Harbour Lane Mixed-Use Building, Shell and Core
Package reference: HL-SC-0042
Issued for subcontract pricing. Private development. Not a public work.

Page 1

DIVISION 00 PROCUREMENT AND CONTRACTING REQUIREMENTS

00 21 13 Instructions to Bidders
Bids are due at 4:00 PM on 12 September 2026. Bids received after that time
will not be opened. Each bidder shall submit a bid bond in the amount of five
percent of the base bid with its proposal. The bid bond shall be issued by a
surety acceptable to the Construction Manager.

00 52 00 Agreement Form
The subcontract issued from this package incorporates by reference all of the
terms and conditions of the prime contract between the Owner and the
Construction Manager, and the Subcontractor assumes toward the Construction
Manager all obligations that the Construction Manager assumes toward the Owner.

00 72 00 General Conditions
Payment to the Subcontractor is expressly conditioned upon receipt of payment
by the Construction Manager from the Owner, and such receipt of payment shall
be a condition precedent to any payment becoming due to the Subcontractor.

Ten percent retainage shall be withheld from each progress payment until final
completion and acceptance of the entire Work.

Page 2

The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to any increase in the subcontract sum
for any delay, hindrance, interference, or acceleration of the Work, whatever
the cause, and an extension of time shall be the Subcontractor's sole and
exclusive remedy for delay.

The Subcontractor shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Construction
Manager, the Owner, and their agents from and against any and all claims,
damages, losses and expenses arising out of or resulting from performance of
the Work.

Neither party shall be liable to the other for any consequential damages,
including but not limited to loss of use, loss of profit, and loss of business
opportunity, arising out of or relating to this Subcontract.

The Construction Manager may terminate this Subcontract for its convenience,
in whole or in part, upon seven days written notice to the Subcontractor.

Should the Subcontractor fail to achieve Substantial Completion of its Work by
the date set out in the Project Schedule, the Subcontractor shall pay to the
Construction Manager liquidated damages in the sum of two thousand five
hundred dollars for each calendar day of delay.

The Subcontractor shall be solely responsible for and have control over
construction means, methods, techniques, sequences and procedures for its own
Work.

Page 3

DIVISION 01 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

01 33 00 Submittal Procedures
Shop drawings for all electrical distribution equipment shall be submitted for
review no later than 30 October 2026. Long lead equipment releases shall follow
within ten working days of submittal approval.

01 45 00 Quality Control
The Subcontractor shall warrant its Work against defects in materials and
workmanship for a period of two years from the date of Substantial Completion.

Page 4

DIVISION 03 CONCRETE

03 30 00 Cast-in-Place Concrete
Provide all formwork, reinforcement, placement and finishing for slabs on grade
and elevated decks. Sleeves and embedded conduit sleeves through structural
slabs are furnished and set under this Section, coordinated with the electrical
trade. Housekeeping pads for electrical switchgear and panelboard locations are
provided under this Section.

Page 5

DIVISION 26 ELECTRICAL

26 05 00 Common Work Results for Electrical
Provide complete raceway, conduit, wiring and grounding systems throughout the
building shell and core, including feeders from the main switchgear to each
floor panelboard.

26 24 13 Switchboards and Panelboards
Furnish and install main switchgear, distribution panelboards and all
associated grounding. Concrete housekeeping pads are by others.

26 51 00 Interior Lighting
Provide lighting fixtures, controls and wiring for all core areas, stairs and
back of house. Fixtures for tenant areas are furnished by others and installed
under this Section.

Page 6

DIVISION 27 COMMUNICATIONS

27 10 00 Structured Cabling
Provide backbone pathway, sleeves and conduit for the structured cabling
system. All conduit and raceway serving communications rooms is installed
under this Section and terminated at the electrical panelboard for power.
Grounding and bonding of the telecommunications rooms is included.

Page 7

DIVISION 28 ELECTRONIC SAFETY AND SECURITY

28 31 00 Fire Detection and Alarm
Provide the fire alarm control panel and all field devices. Line voltage
wiring, conduit and raceway for the fire alarm system is included in this
Section and shall be coordinated with the lighting circuits.

END OF PACKAGE
